It kind of feels like AI slot and it's a
very subtle thing that makes it feel
that way. Common mistake I see with
prototyping is people don't think about
context within that 360° way. People
just write a quick prompt or a quick
little mini spec and expect the
prototype tool to be able to create
something as high fidelity as what they
used to create before. So the next type
of context for us to think through is
the data context. JSON is a really good
way to define structured data. And I
have this data file. that's completely
separate. I can just replace it with
psychedelic rock. Save it. And now our
prototype is going to use a completely
different data set. We've moved from a
really fast assembly line approach to
much more of a jazz band.
>> Okay, welcome everyone. My guest today
is Ravi. Uh Ravi was previously CPO of
Tinder, but now he is a product adviser
and full-time vibe coder.
>> I do do a lot of vive coding. Yes,
>> you do, right? Yeah. And I think I think
Robbie, you've done more thinking on AI
prototyping than anyone else that I
know. So yeah, really excited to have
you demo your workflows and show us how
it should be done.
>> Awesome. I'm excited for the
conversation.
>> Yeah. So before we get into the demo,
maybe let's talk about, you know, this
is like buzz word going around like you
shouldn't do prompt engineering, you
should do context engineering, but what
does that actually even even mean? Like
do you have some slides talking about
that?
>> Yeah, I've got some slides. I've talked
to a few companies about this. I
actually really like the shift away from
prompt engineering to context
engineering because I feel like it does
a much better job uh framing what is
actually the task at hand. And so I have
a few slides that I pulled together
which think about what is context
engineering from like very first
principles of what are LLMs doing and
why is context so important
>> and the the move to context engineering
I think sort of captures this overall
shift from the idea that you're having a
conversation to the idea that you're
actually designing all of the
information that an LLM or other AI
models need to do their work. So I like
this definition of context engineering
which is context engineering is
designing and building systems that
provide an AI model with the right
information and tools to accomplish the
task. And I think a lot of the a common
mistake I see with prototyping is people
don't think about context within that
360° way. And as a result, people just,
you know, write a quick prompt or a
quick little mini spec and expect the
prototype tool to be able to create
something as high fidelity as what they
used to create before when they had all
of these different artifacts that are a
critical part of the product life cycle.
And so something that you know we'll
walk through today is how you can think
about context in a more full stack way
and pull in the essential elements that
include the thing that looks a lot like
a prompt or a spec as well as other
types of context that can be really
helpful in terms of getting the output
that you want from an AI prototyping
tool or a vibe coding tool.
>> Yeah. Like when I make prototypes, a lot
of it is just like yeah, I I I use some
screenshots or oneline prompts and just
a lot of the prototypes that I make are
kind of like throwaway. But I think but
I think your point is that if you set
this up properly, uh because a lot of
people are going to prototype from an
existing product, right? They're trying
to add a new feature to existing
product.
>> So you set this up properly, it'll be
much easier to kind of just like just
like keep using the same prototype over
again to add different fe features.
>> Yeah. And I think it's okay if
ultimately your prototype is disposable.
That's totally fine. What's important is
that a a really good prototype is a good
decision-making tool. And so you go into
creating the prototype with the idea of
what decision do I want to help
facilitate as a result of this
prototype. And you know if for example
the prototype is going to help you have
conversations with customers, then the
prototype has to look and feel enough
like your product that there's a
suspension of disbelief. And if there
isn't that, then customers kind of shift
out of actually talking about your
prototype and what they do into the
moment to theorizing about what they
would do. And you know, as soon as a
customer talks about what they would do,
the accuracy of the research that you're
getting is much less. And you want them
to instead really feel like they're
using your product, have the suspension
of disbelief, and have them talk about
what they are doing rather than what
they what they would do. And in order to
do that, the prototype needs to have a
level of fidelity that's hard to get
with sort of traditional prompting
techniques. And I'll talk about some
ways um and show some ways where you can
actually get uh much more robust output
from a prototyping tool.
>> Okay. Do do you want to just uh get get
into it then? Like should we just do a
demo of like how to prototype design
systems, all that kind of stuff? Should
we try it?
>> Absolutely. I think one of the fun
things that I've seen with prototyping
tools and the way that I approach them
is you can use not just the tool itself,
but you can use multiple tools in
concert to sort of almost hack your own
multi- aent system. Right? You might use
claude for one thing, chat for another
thing, the prototyping tool for another
thing. And in that way, you're only
giving the prototyping tool the context
that it absolutely needs rather than
polluting the tool with a lot of context
that are intermediary steps to getting
to what you want. Um, so that sounds a
little abstract. I'll show what that
means. Um, but here we have uh Reforge
Build uh which is a great prototyping
tool. It's aimed specifically at teams
that are building prototypes of existing
products. So where they have um context
or design systems or other things that
they want to integrate into their
prototyping process. And if we think
about, you know, a typical um
a typical prompt or a typical sort of
context that we would start out with for
a prototype, it might look something
like this. So imagine you want to create
a page for a music streaming app like
Spotify where a person can see a page
for a particular genre and actually see
a list of albums related to that genre
maybe sorted by timeline. So you can see
how a genre has evolved over time. So in
this particular case I have a
functionally oriented um prompt that
looks and feels a lot like a mini spec.
So build a music genre detail page for
down tempmpo. So that's the music genre
that we want to use with the following
sections. I want to have a hero image. I
want to have a large placeholder image
up top. I want to have a genre header.
So display the name of the genre in a
bold title. I want to have some tags for
artists that are really important for
this genre. I want to have a timeline of
albums. So a chronic chronological list
of landmark albums grouped by year. For
each album, I want to have artwork and
name and album title and a short
description of the album's significance.
So, this isn't a ton of context, but
it's enough that the tool can really
understand what we're building. Um, so
if I get it started, and I've actually
got some of these kind of pre-built, so
we don't have to wait around as it's
building.
What's really cool now is um whether
it's Reforge Builds or other tools,
they're going to go in and they're going
to expand this prompt and reason about
what exactly do you want and it'll go
into kind of this multi-step mode where
it's creating a to-do list and then
working its way through the to-do list
to create something that despite the
fact that we've given it very little
information um is actually a pretty good
output. Um, and so I'll actually just
jump to um the finished product.
And so here I use this prompt. And
here's what got built. And it's actually
pretty incredible that based on a very
small amount of information that we got
a pretty nice output. And it took a lot
of steps for us. Um, it generated a um
overview of the down tempmpo music
genre. It generated some key artists.
All of this is coming out of the
training data for the models. These
models have gotten so powerful that you
know pretty much anything that you want
to ask questions about. Um it can pull
in information. So even though we're
using the model for AI prototyping, it's
essentially doing copywriting for us as
well. Um and then we've got our list of
albums organized by year. Um and you
know it's working pretty well, but
there's also some things that um you
know kind of break the suspension of
disbelief. I think the biggest one is
probably, you know, we're not seeing
album covers and so we would expect in a
music streaming platform that we would
see album covers, we would see um, you
know, some additional details that make
this feel like a more realistic
experience. But it's a start and you can
certainly iterate from here. But if you
start to think differently about the
different types of context that are
available, you can actually get much
more specific and have a lot more
control over what gets built and build
something that's a lot more robust. This
episode is brought to you by Granola. If
you're in back-toback meetings, you know
how much work it is to take notes live
and clean them up afterwards. That's why
I love Granola, the best AI meeting
notes app in the market. Here's how I
use it. Granola automatically takes
notes during a meeting and I can add my
own notes, too. After the meeting ends,
I use a Granola recipe to extract clear
takeaways and next steps in the exact
format that I want. Then I can just
share her notes directly in Slack with
my colleagues or even get Granola to
share her notes automatically. Honestly,
of all the AI apps that I use, Granola
is the one that saves me the most time.
Try it now at granola.ai/pater
and use the code Peter to sign up and
get three months free. That's
granola.ai/pater.
Now back to our episode.
>> So what are the different levels of
context that are available?
>> Yes. So I think the next level is um
this is functional context. The next
level that is really important is visual
context. Um and so when we're designing
a product,
a wireframe is usually an incredibly
important part of building a product.
The analogy I like to use here is um you
know, if you're building a house, you
would never work with an architect that
doesn't know how to draw blueprints,
right? if they just said to you, "Here's
a memo. Here's what your house is going
to look like. It's going to have these
rooms. It's going to be this square
footage." Um, you would never go ahead
and build that house. Because no matter
how detailed that memo is, you can't
really visualize what the end product is
going to look like. And buildings are
three-dimensional experiences or
two-dimensional experiences. Um, and
software is a visual two-dimensional
experience. And so you need to be able
to see the blueprints in order to really
understand how all of the specs are
getting rendered into a particular
experience. And so here I've very
quickly in Figma uh just taken 20
minutes done a wireframe
um and sort of outlined what um I want
this interface to look like. It's
actually surprising with just words how
close to the wireframe um the
prototyping tool was able to get. Um,
but there's a couple of things that I
don't love about it. Um, you know, I'm
not sure about this header. It feels uh
not quite as tight as we would like. It
doesn't work great at all levels of
responsiveness. So, if I got go down to
uh mobile um mobile width, a lot of
space is being taken up by the album
cover. Um, and so we don't have as much
space to work with um for the
descriptions. Whereas here in the
design, I've specifically solved for
that and said actually, you know, we
want the album cover and the artist and
the album name to be on its own line.
And then we'll have a full width section
for the description of the album as well
as the the tags. And so we've made some
very specific design decisions here that
we want to um make sure are
incorporated. And so we can actually
just provide that as a um here's
actually you know we finished the
finished the generation here you know
also did a really nice job um but you
know we can just provide the wireframe
and nothing else um and get an output
and so here I've just uploaded that
particular wireframe that I showed have
a very short prompt so build a music
genre detail page for down tempmpo using
the attached wireframe use a dark theme
with full rounded buttons, use these
particular colors, and it's done a
remarkably good job of thinking about
the image that I that I provided it, not
literally, but from the perspective of a
wireframe, and it's filled out a bunch
of details. And so now we have, you
know, essentially a, you know, kind of
living version of the wireframe that we
just created. It doesn't have much
content because we didn't have that
content in the wireframe, but it's got a
much nicer user um interface and user
experience. And so here, this is kind of
two different versions of context. You
know, in this case, we start with text
space functional context. In this case,
we're providing visual context, but
we're still not at a point where this is
something we could put in front of
customers in part because we've got
dummy data. And so the next type of
context to to for us to think through is
the data context. And this is really an
important thing that I think a lot of
people that are building prototypes
should be thinking more about is what is
the underlying data that drives your
experience.
>> Yeah, let's let's take a look at that
next. Yeah, that that sounds good.
>> Yeah, that sounds good. Um, so let me
pull up Claude.
And this is where I think you can use
multiple different tools to essentially
prepare the context for your vibe coding
session. um separately um and get to
something that looks and feels really
good before you're ready to use it as
context within your vibe coding tool or
your prototyping tool. Um so here I have
a thread that I've already created with
Claude. Um it says, you know, I'm
interested in the history of down
tempmpo music and I'd like to prototype
a feature to browse music uh by history.
Generate a JSON file. So JSON is a
datacentric format um that any
prototyping tool or vibe coding tool
will understand. You know just like
today we're using markdown to do a lot
of prompting for um for you know various
tools that we're using. JSON is
similarly ubiquitous as a format and a
really good way to define structured
data. So generate a JSON file that
includes the name of the genre, a
description of the genre, a list of
seminal artists in that genre. Include
in that JSON an array of 15 to 20 albums
that were milestones. For each album,
include the album name, the release
date, the artist name, a 1 to two
sentence description um and a list of
tags associated with that. So we've
asked Claude to do quite a lot of work.
Um it can use web search, it can use its
own training data to fill this in. And
what we get as an output is a highly
structured file that has a bunch of data
that we can now actually use to create a
much more realistic prototype. So we
know which genre we're using, um, you
know, we've got a description, we've
got, you know, who are the seminal
artists, who are the, you know, what are
the milestone albums, name, release date
tags associated with that album. What's
interesting here though is like one of
the things that we saw in both of these
prototypes is that album covers feel
like an important part of the user
experience. And we'd actually like the
prototype to have accurate album covers
to feel more realistic for users so that
they're really using our prototype as if
it's a real product.
>> Yep.
>> And so one of the powerful things in
Claude is you can add in MCP servers.
And so in this case, I added in an MCP
server to get the album cover for any
particular album. I couldn't find
exactly the MCP server that I wanted. So
I actually created the MCP server in
cloud code. Um, and you know, that took
about an hour. Um, but it was good cuz I
was able to create something where I
could get album covers from free
services rather than having to have uh a
Spotify API account.
>> Okay.
>> And so I asked it to do that. It uses
the MCPc MCP server goes through for
every single album. Um identifies the
URL has the cover URL um and then in
this case it provides me both the cover
um it provides me the the URL for um
every single album. So we've got here
you know if I were to go in and look at
this particular image I'll see the album
cover for this particular album. So you
basically like uh in cloud code you're
like hey find find me some free sources
of album covers and then I found the the
user or something. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Exactly. And um you know in this
case we're using the album cover MCP
server. So it can go out it can make an
API call and say you know for this
artist Mortiva for this album deep dive
give me the URL album cover. Um and then
you can add that to your data set. You
could also do that for Unsplash for
example. Um, so if you want uh basically
images related to anything, it can go
out to Unsplash, pull in a URL, and now
our data set not just has text data, but
it also has um URLs to actual realistic
images. And now what I can do is when I
prompt, I can take all of this JSON,
just copy the file.
>> And so here I've created a database
prompt. So I said, you know, very simply
just build a music genre detail page for
down tempmpo using the following data.
In this particular case, I haven't given
it any other information about what I
want the page to look like. I haven't
said that I want a header. I haven't
said that I want um a yearby-year list
of albums. I'm just giving it the data
that we created in Claude. And the
prototyping tool is then able to
actually understand the structure of
that data. um because JSON files are the
sort of ubiquitous structured data
format and then it's figuring out for
itself what's the right UX around this
and so we have a few interesting new
things here like the ability to follow a
genre the ability to play um play the
essential albums in the genre we have
the um about section we have a bunch of
seminal artists and then we've actually
got kind of a different interface here
which has some cool elements where it's
a 2x two grid I can search I can
determine the sort I can um just uh
filter down to particular tags like only
those that um are related to hip hop
hiphop or only those that have sort of
more of a c cinematic feel. And so in
this case because we've given it the
underlying data has actually said okay
based on this data here's what the UX
should look like um and here's some of
the features that they likely want based
on this. And so now we have three
completely different ways of of building
our prototype.
>> The the album color makes a big
difference. Yeah. four.
>> It does make a huge difference. So, if
you go down, you kind of look, it just
feels a lot more realistic. This is the
first prototype that I feel like we
could put in front of users and actually
get really good user data.
>> This got us, you know, part of the way
there. Um, but it still feels like, you
know, it kind of feels like AI slot. Um,
and it's a very subtle thing that makes
it feel that way. And that's the AI
covers here. We're very specific about
the visuals. I like the UX. you know, I
specifically designed the UX this way,
but you know, we don't have accurate
data, so we can't put this in front of
customers. Here, we're starting to get
to something that is more realistic
because we're providing it with accurate
data. Um, but it's not quite what I had
imagined. I actually like some of the
things here better, and so AI can be a
good brainstorming tool in that way. But
if I have a really specific design that
I want to test, the final step is
pulling all of that together into a full
stack prompt. Um, and so here we have a
full stack prompt that focuses on
functional context, visual context, and
data context. And so, um, and then I've
used markdown here to make the prompt
understandable in a more structured way
to the LLM. So, build a music genre
evolution feature. We've got all of the
functional requirements that we've
talked about. Says, design the page
based on the attached wireframe. I've
attached the wireframe. Use these um
these colors and then populate the page
with real down tempmpo content using the
following data. Um I added a couple of
things to make sure that it's pulling uh
the cover album uh the album covers from
the URL data. Um, and then I've asked it
to save the data uh as a separate file.
It's called data.json. And I'll show why
we do that in a second. And then I've
just pasted in the JSON data that we had
generated in Claude. And now we have
this really nice, very realistic looking
interface. It looks a lot like the
wireframe that I wanted. Um, I was able
to build that wireframe quickly in
Figma. You can also use a handdrawn
sketch or you can use balsamic, whatever
you want. the LM do a remarkably good
job of interpreting those. We've got
realistic um album data, album covers,
tags. Um and so now this is something
that it feels polished, doesn't feel
like AI slop. We can put it in front of
users and see whether or not this is the
sort of experience that they would would
want. Um and we can iterate on it from
here, right? If we want to say, you
know, make the album covers larger,
we can do that. And one of the things
that uh makes this a particularly good
way to prototype is by giving the tool
the visual context, the data context,
the functional context, it's actually
built the code in a way that's pretty
modular. And so when we ask to make the
album covers bigger, um it'll make them
bigger, but it'll also make sure that
it's pulling in all of the image data
and do a really nice job of um
responding to our requests. And so, um,
you know, when you start in this way, it
creates a a prototype that is a lot more
iterable, um, than if you're letting the
AI kind of figure out, um, all of the
details. In that case, you might get an
underlying structure that doesn't make
sense.
>> It's kind of funny to think about it
because, you know, we've both been in
product for a while and, um, in some
ways the waterfall process is kind of
dead because like, you know, it's so so
much easier to just generate these
prototypes,
>> but I don't think it's actually dead. It
just kind of accelerated because like
what you just walked through is actually
just uh writing the spec creating the
wireframes and even thinking about the
data structure before you get this thing
to actually code code right so instead
of just like a two week wireframe two
week process now it's like a 10-minute
waterfall process but still have to do
it yeah the analogy I really like is
we've moved from a really fast assembly
line where you start with the spec and
so products involved and then you do
design and then you do engineering and
kind and then you launch and things
follow this linear process. We've moved
from that assembly line approach to much
more of a jazz band. If you think about
a jazz band, everyone who's playing an
instrument, you know, has a specialty,
but people are riffing off of each other
and there's no one that's necessarily
leading. The lead might change um you
know, from from beat to beat depending
on who's you know, who's playing and
who's kind of leading the rhythm or the
melody. And that kind of way of working
together where we're all rifting off of
each other. There's not as much of an
established structure, I think, is going
to become the norm. Everyone's got a
really important set of skills to bring
to the table. I don't think product
design engineering go away, but I think
we work together in a much more cohesive
way.
>> Yeah, I think Jazzband sounds a lot more
fun than assembly line to work for. So,
you know,
>> Exactly. For sure.
>> Yeah.
>> And so, one of the cool things here is
we've got this really nice prototype.
this is something we could put in front
of customers. But we also know
customers, you know, sort of have their
own perspective on things. And if
there's a person who's interested in a
completely different genre of music than
down tempmpo, they may or may not engage
with this in the way that we want them
to um because they don't really
understand the genre. They're not that
interested in it. And so, as part of the
prompt, I asked the tool um to save a
separate file um called data.json.
And here's where we have all of our
data. Um, and what's nice is this makes
the whole design a lot more modular. And
so if I go back into Claude,
I can actually say, um, now generate a
similar history for Psychedelic Rock,
generate a JSON file and include album
covers using the album cover MCP server.
That took about 15 minutes or so to run.
But I got at the end
a file that is completely different.
Psychedelic rock. It's got a description
of that particular genre. It's got a
bunch of the seinal artists in that
genre, milestone albums. It's got the
album covers. Now I can just copy this
data.
Come in here and I have this data file.
It's completely separate. I can just
replace it with psychedelic rock,
>> save it, and now our prototype is going
to use a completely different data set.
So, we can actually change what we're
putting in front of the customer or what
we're testing in a way that's really
personalized that will get us much
better data. So, now if I go back to the
prototype, now we have a page for
psychedelic rock. We have a list of the
key artists and then we could see how
the genre evolved over time all by just
pasting in a different file. And so this
way of thinking about context in a full
stack way generates more realistic, more
authentic prototypes, but it also
generates better structured prototypes
that are more flexible and robust
because this idea of data context,
visual context, usability, functional
context, um is pretty similar to how
software is built. um software, you have
the front end, you have the underlying
data structure, um you have the
services. Uh and so when you give it
this style of, you know,
multi-dimensional context, it
understands what the underlying
architecture of the prototype should be
better and it creates something that's a
lot more flexible.
>> Yeah. Like dude, I've I've gone so lazy.
I I I just gave the AI like vague
requests and I thought what you were
going to do with the JSON was paste into
the AI chat window and make it update.
But the fact that you have a separate uh
file for the data actually makes just
way just copy and paste the stuff
directly, right? It's like way faster
and way easier. So I try to keep my
requests um in the chat really clean and
then I use other tools to prepare the
data as I need it or um you know
sometimes I edit the code directly or
just replace the code directly.
>> Awesome. Let me let me dive a little bit
deeper into one area. So I think yeah I
I think like you said what makes
prototypes a lot more engaging is the
visuals and like the the art right. So
like
>> and and like is that your typical
process cuz I know there is like free
stuff like um Unsplash and maybe use
like Nanobanana or something to generate
some images but the fact that you went
over to cloud code to build an MCP
server is it's pretty unique I I think
like is that like how do you do that?
you just kind of like, you know, set up
a Clockwork project be like, "Hey, you
know, like for example, let's say we're
trying to build the thing for movies
instead of albums." Do you just be like,
"Hey, hey, Clock, like I want to build a
movie album thing. Can you set up an MCP
server for me and find some free sources
of movie cover art?" Is that kind of the
prompt or how do you
>> Yeah, I would check and see if there's
an MCP server first. There probably is a
movie cover MCP server. Um, at the time
that I was doing this, I couldn't quite
get the album cover MCP servers to work
in the way that I wanted. So, I just
went to Cloud Code and said, "Hey, you
know, here's what I'm looking for. I
want to give you an album name and an
artist, and I want to get back a URL,
and I want it to be free. I don't want
to have it have to have an API key. Uh,
and Daer provides a lot of this album
art for free." And so, it just built the
server based on that. Um, and then I
would test it a little bit and was able
to get it to a nice point where I could
use it within Cloud. And now I have it
um you know I built that a few months
ago and I use it whenever I do this demo
or if I have an have a similar need. Um
I also have one for uh locations for um
a travel oriented prototype. So uh for
the Eiffel Tower in Paris or those sorts
of sorts of things. And so I think the
combination of using cloud potentially
using cloud skills or MCP servers gives
you a really nice pallet of different
capabilities with which to create um
data sets that feel authentic.
>> And the MCP server after you made it,
you just like deploy it to GitHub or
something and then you just added it to
this thing and then it works. Yeah,
>> you can do um a local MCP server. So you
just uh you need to edit the uh local
settings for cloud. So it's just code
that's sitting on my computer. I haven't
had to deploy it anywhere.
>> Got it. Okay. So, let me ask you some
hot takes. I was talking to Jeff who is
RAMP's CPL. So, I was asking him to show
me his prototyping process too and and
he said his PMs don't prototype. They
they just like they just build and
submit PRs cuz like the prototyping
phase is almost like a interm like if
this thing is so easy why just let them
like actually submit real code. Do you
have any thoughts about that or
>> I do um you know use another analogy. I
think it's like the difference between
sketching and painting and oil painting,
right? Like if you know what you want
and you're ready to commit to that and
you're ready to deal with all of the
complexity and the time involved in
creating production code and shipping
production code, then absolutely do it.
The fact that like a non-technical
person can do that is fantastic.
A lot of times I think the value of
prototyping is the fact that it is
really flexible that you don't have to
be tied to what how your system works
today to the data that your system has
today. And so you know most artists
before they create something they do a
bunch of sketches and studies to figure
out what direction they want to go in. I
think that skill is still really helpful
for um product folks and for designers
who want to explore the solution space
before committing to a direction and do
that unencumbered by you know all of the
details that are required for production
code.
>> Okay. So my second question is like like
a lot of designers still use Figma and
some of these other tools, right? And um
>> and and I totally understand the design
process is you have to explore a bunch
of different solutions first. You have
to diverge first and then you figure out
what you want to do and then you
converge to like one solution. But like
I almost feel like these days it's like
faster to explore using code because I
so I can just like prompt this thing to
be like hey make a 2x2 grid or something
and then it has another v variation.
>> So so yeah. Do do you do you think these
design tools are kind of like fading
importance and people just going to be
like, you know, doing this stuff in code
or
>> I don't
Yeah. Um and I know it's a it's really
topical. I don't think so. I think that
there are um two different ways to
think. There's like a textbased way to
think and there's a visual way to think.
And so, you know, to go back to that
analogy of the architect and the
blueprints, you would never build a
house without blueprints. You shouldn't
be building software without blueprints.
You shouldn't be building something that
is a visual experience without exploring
first what the visuals look like. You
can do that in code and you could do
that with a prototyping tool, but it's
going to require a whole lot of back and
forth to get exactly what you want if
you have a spe particular experience in
mind versus just, you know, you could
draw something on a piece of paper and
take a photo of it. You can use
balsamic. You can use Figma if you're
really good at it. And so I think it's
important for PMs especially, but also
for designers as well as engineers to
just understand that sometimes visual
thinking and a visual prompt is the best
way to explain what you want to the
model versus something entirely in text.
And then you know part of what I'm
advocating here is it doesn't have to be
one or the other. You can use these
different forms of context to be really
specific about what you want the output
to be. You don't have to use all three
types of context all the time. You know,
you might want to push and pull. In
fact, if we look at the data centric UI,
the fact that we just provided the data
and that the AI filled in the gaps
created some interesting um conclusions
like we want to have a 2x two grid and
we want to have these filters. And so
that's an interesting way to brainstorm.
But I think it's important to have in
your toolbox these different ways of
thinking, these different ways of
providing context to the AI um so that
you can have a much shorter um path from
what you're imagining to you know what
is actually in front of you from a
prototype standpoint or from a
production feature standpoint.
>> Yeah, hope hopefully like I think
Figma's already working on this where
like you can take this prototype, you
can plop into Figma, you can move some
boxes around and do some stuff and then
you can plop it back into code. So So
it's like like you said, it's kind of
like a jazz band. you're mixing and
matching different tools to just explore
that idea.
>> Absolutely. And I think that kind of
round trip Figma's getting better. It's
not quite there yet. Um, cursor just
added the ability to do some, you know,
visual manipulation within the tool
which is really good. Um, V0ero has some
of that as well. And so yeah, I think
it's pretty exciting that, you know,
soon we're going to be able to do that
sort of round tripping between code and
visuals and copy and really dial in the
experience. And ultimately, I think as
AI does more and more for us on the
execution side, the craft around what do
I want the copy to say? What do I want
the layout to be? What font do I want to
use? What spacing that I want do I want
to use? All of that stuff that's really
taste based is going to become more
important and that's going to set apart
a product that feels like really dialed
in versus a product that feels like AI
slop. Awesome. I think last question.
So, you know, um you and I grew up in PM
where like you know, everyone like I
remember working at Microsoft and people
were writing like 17page PRDS.
>> Yeah. I I was there too.
>> Yeah. And and and like part of me is so
glad that phase is hopefully over at
most companies. But I think I I do think
the exercise of writing a PRD like
there's stuff that is not covered on a
prototype. Like for example, like who
are you building for? What problem are
you solving? What what kind of goals are
you you're trying to achieve? Like that
kind of stuff I think should probably
still come before this, right? Or or
maybe like um like may maybe the PRD
still exists, but like maybe even after
doing this, you still write a PRD, but
it just doesn't have all like the
details about the user stories and all
that crap. Like it just focus on like
what is the problem? What is the
milestones? I think we're used to
working in sort of the strict linear
fashion of the PRD comes first, then we
do the wireframes, then we do the
detailed designs, then we do the MVP
because it's actually really it has been
really expensive to create each one of
those artifacts. So, we want only want
to create the more expensive artifact
once we have some signal that we're in
the right direction. Now, I think we
don't need to have that linear
relationship. So, you know, sometimes
the PRD will come before the prototype,
sometimes the PRD will come after the
prototype, and that's totally fine. I
think the thing that is important is to
understand that we have all of these
tools with which to explore a solution
space. Really important is to understand
the questions that we want to answer.
When you write uh a prototype or when
you write a PRD, it's basically to
answer a set of questions. I think what
we'll often see is people dive straight
into a tool, they play around with the
feature, they may get it in front of
customers, they get some feedback, and
then they say, "Okay, I think we're
actually we're on to the right thing um
in terms of what we want to solve for
the customer, how we're going to do it."
Now, I'm going to write the PRD. I'm
going to link to the prototype from the
PRD, but in that PRD, I'm going to
explain a bunch of things that the
prototype can't, which is, you know,
what is the problem we're trying to
solve? What does success look like in
terms of the metrics? How does this
ladder up to our long-term strategy? And
you know, by doing that, you essentially
create sort of this well-rounded picture
of what you're doing where each
individual artifact alone is not enough
to explain itself, but collectively you
have a very clear um path forward. And
you know, I think that that process is
really organic. You know, the steps are
going to get mixed up, but that's okay.
The real important thing is what do we
need in order to establish the right
direction and create value for the
customer and create value for the
company.
>> Yeah. And I I I do think having these
prototypes cuz it used to be like people
follow this waterfall process for like 3
months and then they have a product and
then and then they launch it and the
people and the customer is like I
actually don't want this like
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> But but now with the prototype, you
know, like even without like any
writeups, you can just show the stuff to
customers. It's it's pretty cheap and
it's pretty fun to make and then they
can give you your initial reactions.
It's like it feels way more engaging and
viseral than like a document. Like you
don't really know what the hell a
document is talking about, but but like
a prototype like I I I can tell you like
I actually want this or I don't want
this, right? This is way faster to get
to an answer. I I think
>> and it's great for everyone. It's great
for execs, for stakeholders, for your
team, for customers to all see it, use
it, kind of figure out, okay, is this
the right direction? I think a lot of
times the best companies that were
really good at being product ccentric
were the ones that were comfortable
doing a lot of wasted work like building
a bunch of things that they knew that
they were never going to ship.
>> But that's a privilege that only the
biggest and most successful and most
lucrative companies had. Now every
company can do that. And so I think
that's kind of like a mark of are you
working in a really AI native way is are
you creating a lot more stuff that you
end up never shipping because you're
finding out that wasn't the right thing
early and you're finding out what the
right thing actually is.
>> Yeah. As long as the stuff you're
creating is not a 17page doc, you know.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. 100%.
>> Cool. Well, Robbie, thanks so much, man.
Like, where can people find you and your
upcoming course?
>> Yeah. So, I've got a course upcoming on
AI prototyping with Reforge. It's going
to be completely free. Um we've got our
first cohort starting next week actually
and then we'll have another cohort in
the spring. Um we're also going to do a
video series. So that will be available
soon. So you can find that course at
Reforge. Just search for Reforge AI
prototyping. Um and then you can find me
online on Substack. Um so I have a
Substack newsletter called Ravi on
Product. I post uh once or twice twice a
month. So would love to see you there.
You can also connect with me on
LinkedIn.
>> Awesome. I didn't realize your course is
free. I I'll definitely take it and try
it myself.
>> Definitely.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh it's an experiment we're trying, you
know, we want to This is such an
important skill. We want to make sure as
many people as possible have access to
it.
>> Cool. All right, Rory. Thanks so much,
man. Yeah, it was great to see